# Pharma-Sales-Analysis-and-Forecasting

<h2> Introduction <h2>

<p>On a larger scale, the sales forecasting in pharmaceutical industry is typically done by using Na誰ve model, where the forecasted values equal values in the previous period with added factor of growth, which is specifically defined for different regions, markets, categories of products, etc. Although this model fails when the market saturates, in general and on a larger scale, it has proven as successful. Still, analysis and forecasts on a smaller scale, such as single distributor, pharmacy chain or even individual pharmacy, smaller periods such as weeks, etc., guide very important decisions related to resource and procurement planning, what-if analyses, return-on-investment forecasting, business planning and others. The main problem in smaller scale time series analyses and forecasts are significant uncertainties and sales performance very close to random, making the forecasts with accuracies above thresholds as defined by Na誰ve methods difficult to achieve.
The main research question we tackle is related to exploring the feasibility of use of modern time-series forecasting methods in pharmaceutical products sales forecasting on a smaller scale. In specific, we benchmark the accuracies achieved with those methods against the performances of basic Na誰ve, Seasonal Na誰ve and Average methods.
Research work behind the paper considers 8 time series with different statistical features. Each of the time-series summarizes sales of a group of pharmaceutical products. Time-series data are collected from the Point-of-Sale system of a single pharmacy in period of 6 years.
This paper is structured into 4 main parts. First, short theoretical background for time series analysis and forecasting is provided to inform the reader on the credibility of decisions made in the implementation of this case study. Then, research methodology, actually a problem-neutral time series forecasting pipeline is presented. Next, the actual implementation is presented, by highlighting the steps made in following the proposed methodology in the case of pharmaceutical products sales data analysis and forecasting. Finally, the discussion brings the description of actual results and some suggestions to the sales department, driven by the result of the data analysis.<p>


## Theoritical Ba
